2.1 Integers
--
Integers come in different variants like signed and unsigned. Each variant has different sizes like 8, 16, 32 and 64. `int` has the same size as `int32` but both are different types and an explicit conversion is required to work with them together.

- `int32` is called a `run` and conventionally indicates uni code code point.
- `uint8` is called a `byte` and emphasizes that the value is a raw data rather than a small numeric quantity.

The integer arithmetic operators +, -, *, and / may be applied to integer, floating-point, and
complex numbers, but the remainder operator % applies only to integers.

Integer literals of any size and type can be written as ordinary decimal numbers, or as octal
numbers if they begin with 0, as in 0666, or as hexadecimal if they begin with `0x` or `0X`, as in `0xdeadbeef`. Hex digits may be upper or lower case. When printing numbers using the `fmt` package, we can control the radix and format with the `%d`, `%o`, and `%x` verbs.

```
o := 0666
fmt.Printf("%d %[1]o %#[1]o\n", o) // "438 666 0666"
x := int64(0xdeadbeef)
fmt.Printf("%d %[1]x %#[1]x %#[1]X\n", x)
// Output:
// 3735928559 deadbeef 0xdeadbeef 0XDEADBEEF
```

Rune literals are written as a character within single quotes. The simplest example is an ASCII character like 'a', but it’s possible to write any Unicode code point either directly or with numeric escapes. Runes are printed with `%c`, or with `%q` if quoting is desired.

2.2 Floating-Point Numbers
--
Go provides two sizes of floating-point numbers, float32 and float64. float64 should be preferred for most purposes because float32 computations accumulate error rapidly unless one is quite careful, and the smallest positive integer that cannot be exactly represented as a float32 is not large. Very small or very large numbers are better written in scientific notation, with the letter e or E preceding the decimal exponent.

Floating-point values are conveniently printed with Printf’s `%g` verb, which chooses the most
compact representation that has adequate precision, but for tables of data, the `%e` (exponent) or `%f` (no exponent) forms may be more appropriate. All three verbs allow field width and numeric precision to be controlled.

2.3 Strings
--
***A string is an immutable sequence of bytes***. Strings may contain arbitrary data, including
bytes with value 0, but usually they contain human-readable text. Text strings are conventionally interpreted as UTF-8-encoded sequences of Unicode code points (runes).

```
s := "hello, world"
fmt.Println(len(s)) // "12"
fmt.Println(s[0], s[7]) // "104 119" ('h' and 'w')
```

- `var2 = var1[:j]` selects first character to `j`th character from `var1`.
- `var2 = var1[j:]` selects `j`th character to last character from `var1`.
- `var2 = var1[i:j]` selects a sub-string `i` to `j` from `var1`.

2.4 Constants and Constant Generator
--
Constants are variables that once declared cannot b e changed. They are evaluated during compile time and throw's error if the user is trying to change them. 

A const declaration may use the constant generator iota, which is used to create a sequence of related values without spelling out each one explicitly. In a const declaration, the value of iota begins at zero and increments by one for each item in the sequence.

```
type Weekday int
const (
	Sunday Weekday = iota
	Monday
	Tuesday
	Wednesday
	Thursday
	Friday
	Saturday
)

This declares Sunday to be 0, Monday to be 1, and so on.
```

2.5 Untyped Constants
--
Constants in Go are a bit unusual. Although a constant can have any of the basic data types
like int or float64, including named basic types like time.Duration, many constants are
not committed to a particular type. The compiler represents these uncommitted constants
with much greater numeric precision than values of basic types, and arithmetic on them is
more precise than machine arithmetic; you may assume at least 256 bits of precision. There
are six flavors of these uncommitted constants, called `untyped boolean, untyped integer,
`untyped rune, untyped floating-point, untyped complex, and untyped string.

When an untyped data type is assigned to a variable it becomes a basic data type.

```
i := 0 // untyped integer;  implicit int(0)
r := '\000' // untyped rune; implicit rune('\000')
f := 0.0 // untyped floating-point; implicit float64(0.0)
c := 0i // untyped complex; implicit complex128(0i)
```

