3.1 Arrays
--
An array is a fixed-length sequence of zero or more elements of a particular type. Because of their fixed length, arrays are rarely used directly in Go. The can be accessed using their indices and the `len` function returns the length of the array. B default an array is populated with zero-type.

```
var q [3]int = [3]int{1, 2, 3}
var r [3]int = [3]int{1, 2}
fmt.Println(r[2]) // "0"

var arr [3]int or arr := [3]int{} //Both are same and initialized to zero-type of size 3
```

In an array literal, if an ellipsis ‘‘...’’ appears in place of the length, the array length is deter-
mined by the number of initializers.

```
q := [...]int{1, 2, 3}
fmt.Printf("%T\n", q) // "[3]int"
```

The size of an array is part of its type, so `[3]int `and` [4]int` are different types. 


3.2 Slices
--
Slices represent variable-length sequences whose elements all have the same type. A slice type is written `[]T`, where the elements have type T; it looks like an array type without a size.

A slice has  3 components:
- **Pointer** points to the first element of the array that is reachable through the slice, which is not necessarily the first element of the array.
- **Length** is the number of slice elements an it can't exceed he capacity.
- **Capacity** is usually the number of elements between the start of the slice and the end of the underlying array.

```
days := [...]string{1: "Sunday", 2: "Monday", 3: "Tuesday", 4: "Wednesday,", 5: "Thursday", 6: "Friday", 10: "Saturday"}

fmt.Printf("%v\n%[1]T\n", days)
```

- An array or a slice initialization can be done as mentioned above with specific indices, the remaining indices will be left with zero-values.

Unlike arrays, slices are not comparable, so we cannot use `==` to test whether two slices contain the same elements. The standard library provides the highly optimized bytes.Equal function for comparing two slices of bytes `([]byte)`, but for other types of slice, we must do the comparison ourselves.

In Go, slices are different from arrays in that slices have an underlying structure that allows them to reference (or "point to") arrays or parts of arrays, rather than directly containing the elements themselves. This characteristic enables certain unique behaviors, including the ability for a slice to contain itself indirectly. Let’s break down what this means in more detail.

`append` function can be used to append new items to a slice as follows:

`days = apend(days, "NewDay")`

When using append function on slices, if there is no more room to append an item, the append function increases the capacity of the slice (may be doubles the length) to accommodate more elements.

Slices can be created using the make function . It takes 3 parameters as follows:

`arr := make([]<type>, length, capacity)`

Capacity can be omitted, in which case it assumes capacity same as length.
`copy` function can be used to copy contents of one slice to another. It returns th number of elements it copied.

```
arr1 := []int{9, 4, 0, 2, 9, 7, 8, 9, 1, 6}
arr2 := make([]int, len(arr1))
tem := copy(arr2, arr1)
fmt.Println(tem, arr1, arr2)//outut: 10, arr1, arr2
```

3.3 Maps
--
In Go, a map is a reference to a hash table, and a map type is written `map[K]V`, where K and V are the types of its keys and values. All of the keys in a given map are of the same type, and all of the values are of the same type, but the keys need not be of the same type as the values. The key type K must be comparable using `==`, so that the map can test whether a given key is equal to one already within it. Though floating-point numbers are comparable, it’s a bad idea to compare floats for equality.

Ways to create `maps`

```
ages := make(map[string]int) // mapping from strings to ints, it is not nil

ages := map[string]int{
	"alice": 31,
	"charlie": 34,
}

ages := map[string]int{} // creates an empty map, it is nil

delete(ages, "alice") // remove element ages["alice"]
```

- While iterating over maps, the order is unspecified.
- Zero value for a `map` s `nil`.
- Accessing a map element by sub-scripting always yields a value. If the key is present in the map, you get the corresponding value; if not, you get the zero value for the element type.

3.4 Structs
--
A struct is an aggregate data type that groups together zero or more named values of arbitrary types as a single entity. Each value is called a field.

```
type Employee struct {
	ID int
	Name string
	Address string
	DoB time.Time
	Position string
	Salary int
	ManagerID int
}

var dilbert Employee
```

Struct values can be declared in 2 ways:

```
TYPE - 2
type Point struct{ X, Y int }
p := Point{1, 2}

TYPE - 2
type Point struct{ X, Y int }
p := Point{X: 1, Y: 2}
```

If all the fields of a struct are comparable, the struct itself is comparable, so two expressions of that type may be compared using == or !=.

#### Struct Embedding

```
type Point struct {
	X, Y int
}

type Circle struct {
	Center Point
	Radius int
}

type Wheel struct {
	Circle Circle
	Spokes int
}

// Declaring Values

var w Wheel
w.Circle.Center.X = 8
w.Circle.Center.Y = 8
w.Circle.Radius = 5
w.Spokes = 20

```

#### Anonymous Structs

```
type Circle struct {
	Point
	Radius int
}

type Wheel struct {
	Circle
	Spokes int
}

//Declaring Values

var w Wheel
w.X = 8 // equivalent to w.Circle.Point.X = 8
w.Y = 8 // equivalent to w.Circle.Point.Y = 8
w.Radius = 5 // equivalent to w.Circle.Radius = 5
w.Spokes = 20

```

Unfortunately, there’s no corresponding shorthand for the struct literal syntax, so neither of
these will compile:

```
w = Wheel{8, 8, 5, 20} // compile error: unknown fields
w = Wheel{X: 8, Y: 8, Radius: 5, Spokes: 20} // compile error: unknown fields

// The right way

w = Wheel{Circle{Point{8, 8}, 5}, 20}
w = Wheel{
	Circle: Circle{
	Point: Point{X: 8, Y: 8},
	Radius: 5,
	},
	
	Spokes: 20, // NOTE: trailing comma necessary here (and at Radius)
}
```


