A function declaration has a name, a list of parameters, an optional list of results, and a body:
```
func name(parameter-list) (result-list) {
	body
}
```

Here are four ways to declare a function with two parameters and one result, all of type int.
The blank identifier can be used to emphasize that a parameter is unused.

```
func add(x int, y int) int { return x + y }
func sub(x, y int) (z int) { z = x - y; return }
func first(x int, _ int) int { return x }
func zero(int, int) int { return 0 }

fmt.Printf("%T\n", add) // "func(int, int) int"
fmt.Printf("%T\n", sub) // "func(int, int) int"
fmt.Printf("%T\n", first) // "func(int, int) int"
fmt.Printf("%T\n", zero) // "func(int, int) int"
```

- Must pass value for every parameter in order and cannot specify parameters by their name.
- Two functions have same type or signature if they have same sequence of parameter types  and result types.

Functions are first-class values in Go: like other values, function values have types, and they
may be assigned to variables or passed to or returned from functions. A function value may
be called like any other function.


A **variadic function** is one that can be called with varying numbers of arguments.

```
fmt.Println(summer(1, 1, 1, 1, 1))

func summer(s ...int) int {
	var sum int
	for _, val := range s {
		sum += val
	}
	return sum
}
```

The `defer` keyword in Go is used to delay the execution of a function or statement until the surrounding function completes. Deferred statements are executed in **Last In, First Out (LIFO)** order, just before the function returns. This makes `defer` particularly useful for cleanup tasks, such as closing files, unlocking mutexes, or releasing other resources. The deferred statement runs even if a `panic` occurs, allowing for cleanup or logging. The value of a variable is captured at the time the `defer` is declared, not when the deferred function runs.


```
func main() { 
	x := 10 
	defer func() {
		fmt.Println("Deferred value of x:", x) 
	}() 
	x = 20 
	fmt.Println("Current value of x:", x) 
}

//OUTPUT

Current value of x: 20
Deferred value of x: 20
```