The virt-manager application is a Python-based desktop user interface for managing
virtual machines through libvirt. It primarily targets KVM VMs, but also manages
Xen and LXC (Linux containers) among others. virt-manager displays a summary
view of running VMs, supplying their performance and resource utilization statistics.
Using the virt-manager graphical interface, one can easily create new VMs, monitor
them, and make configuration changes when required. An embedded VNC and
SPICE client viewer presents a full graphical console to the VM.

Using the Virtual Networks tab in `virt-manager`you will be able to configure the following types of virtual network (default is NATed):

- NATed
- Routed
- Isolated

`default` is the name for both default  network and storage pools.

VM's can be installed in many ways such as using ISO's, kickstart, disk image files, network boot (PXE) and other ways. 

To connect to a running domain/VM `virt-viewer <vm-name>` command can be used.

`qemu-img` can be used to create disks for VM's. Once a disk file is created it can be used to create a VM using `virt-install` command by specifying required settings as shown below:

```
qemu-img create -f raw -o size=10G /var/lib/libvirt/qemu/win7.img

virt-install \
--name Win7 \
--ram 1024 \
--disk path=./var/lib/libvirt/qemu/win7.img \
--vcpus 1 \
--os-type Windows \
--os-variant Windows7 \
--network bridge=virbr0 \
--graphics vnc,port=5999 \
--console pty,target_type=serial \
--cdrom ./win7.iso \
```

On the other hand, virt-builder can be used to  download disk images of operating systems and imported using the virt-install command, which is much faster compared to installing VM's from ISO files.

```
- virt-builder centos-7.1 --format raw --size 50G --hostname <hostname> --root-password "password:<password>"

- virt-install --name centos --ram 1028 --vcpus=2 --disk path=/var/lib/libvirt/qemu/centos-7.1.img --import
```