- `define` is used to create a persistent domain.
- `undefine` removes a domain completely.
- `create` is used to create an ephemeral domain.
- `shutdown` is used to gracefully shutdown a domain.
- `destroy` is like pulling power plug of the domain.

An advanced level of suspend and resume is save and restore. Here you are saving the machine state to a file and then restoring it later. This feature comes in handy for system administrators when they want to make an unscheduled restart of the virtual environment and one of the domains has an application that needs a complex starting process:

```
- virsh save <domain> /path/to/file
- virsh restore /path/to/file
```

It is not mandatory to start a domain from a save file. `managed-save` saves the VM's state in `/var/lib/libvirt/qemu/save` directory which can be restored by simply starting the VM. If the VM doesn't start, simply delete the save file and start the VM again.

```
- virsh managed-save <vm-name>
- virsh start <vm-name>
```


VM Migration
--
Moving VM's from one physical machine to another. If it is done when the VM is running then it is called *Live Migration*. If the VM the is offline during migration and resumes on the destination machine, then it is called *Offline Migration*. The most important benefit of VM live migration is increased up-time and reduced downtime.

Live Migration process is invisible to the user using the VM. Two main benefits of migration using KVM are:

1. It does not need any support from the VM, meaning you can migrate VM's irrespective of the OS they are using.
2. It is hardware independent, meaning VM's on AMD processor machine can be migrated to Intel processor machines. 

here are some basic requirements the migration looks for. VM should be using a storage pool, which is created on a shared storage. The name of the storage pool and the virtual disks path should remain the same on both hypervisors (source and destination hypervisors).

- Virtual networks used by VM's should be available on both VM's. Bridge which is configured for networking should be available on both the hypervisors.
- Shared storage is recommended between 2 hypervisors. If not then the pool name and the virtual disk path should match.
- Time should be synced. It is recommended to sync time to same NTP server. - It is important that the systems use a DNS server for name resolution. Adding the host details on /etc/hosts will not work. You should be able to resolve the hostnames using the host command.

There is a locking mechanism to stop VM's from starting on both hypervisors. There are 2 locking mechanisms.  

- `lockd`:  `lockd` makes use of POSIX `fcntl()` advisory locking capability. It was started by `virtlockd` daemon. It requires a shared file system (preferably NFS), accessible to all the hosts which share the same storage pool.
- `sanlock`: This is used by oVirt projects. It uses a disk paxos algorithm for maintaining continuously renewed leases.

It is recommended to use `lockd` for `libvirt` and `samlock` oVirt. ==To enable `lockd` just uncomment the line `lock_manager= "lockd"` in `/etc/libvirt/qemu.conf` on both  hypervisors.==


