KVM/QEMU/7. Templates and Snapshots.md, before:

 A virtual machine template (more commonly referred to as simply a template) is a pre-configured operating system image that can used to quickly deploy virtual machines. Using templates, you can avoid many repetitive installation and configuration tasks. The result is a fully installed, ready to operate (virtual) server in less time than manual installation would take.

`virt-clone` and `virt-sysprep` and other operating systems sealing utilities can be used to create templates, although they are not intended for creating templates. We create and manage templates with the help of the `virsh` and `qemu-img` commands and deploy virtual machines from a template using the thin and clone methods:

- **Thin method:** A virtual machine deployed using the thin cloning mechanism uses the template image as a base image in read-only mode and links an additional "copy on write image" to store newly generated data. It requires less disk space but cannot run without access to the base template image.
- **Clone method:** A virtual machine deployed using the full cloning mechanism creates a complete copy of the virtual machine that is fully independent of the original VM or VM template. But it requires the same disk space as the original.

`virt-sysprep` prepares a Linux virtual machine to become a template or clone by removing system-specific information automatically so that clones can be made from it. `virt-sysprep` can also customize a virtual machine, for instance by adding SSH keys, users, or logos.

```
- virt-sysprep -d <vm-name>
- virt-sysprep -a /path/to/disk // can also be used whn guest is not defined
- virt-sysprep --list-operations // lists all operations it performs on VM
- virt-sysre --operations list,of,operations [-d, -a] [vm-name or disk]
```

==After using `virt-sysprep` on a VM, it is recommended to not never start a VM as it will lose all `sysprep` operations and might cause problems in VM's deployed using thin method.==

After completing the `sysprep` step, the XML file of the VM should be saved and the VM's should be shutoff. 

Creating Linux Templates
--
To create a Linux template, it needs to be installed first using ISO file. Once the installation is done create a default user with a password, change hostname or add ssh key files. Once you have done everything run `virt-sysprep` command on the installed Linux VM and save the VM's XML file. Now create a `backing` disk file for the clone and  apply virt-clone on the created disk file as follows.

```
- virt-sysprep -d <vm-name(temlate)>
- virsh dumpxml <vm-name(template)>
- qemu-img create -b /path/to/vm(template)/disk -F <original-vm-(backing)disk-format> -f <clone-disk-format> /path/to/new/disk
- virt-clone --original-xml <templates-xml> -n <name-for-clone> -f /path/to/clone/disk --preserve-data 
```

Creating Windows Template
--
Unlike Linux `virt-sysprep` doesn't support windows. The `sysprep` should be done form inside the VM.
1. Open `regedit` and navigate to `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/System/Setup` and create a string value named `UnattendFile`.
2. Now modify the string `UnattendFile` value to `a:\sysprep.inf` and save it.
3. Then, go to `c:\Windows\System32` and run the `sysprep.exe` file. 
4. Under System Cleanup Action, select Enter System Out-of-Box-Experience (OOBE) and tick the Generalize checkbox if you need to change the computer's system identification number (SID).
5.  Under Shutdown options, select Shutdown and click on the OK button. The virtual machine will now go through the sealing process and shut down automatically.

Now follow the commands:

```
- virsh dumpxml <vm-name(template)>
- virsh undefine <windows-vm>
- qemu-img create -b /path/to/vm(template)/disk -F <original-vm-(backing)disk-format> -f <clone-disk-format> /path/to/new/disk
- virt-clone --original-xml <templates-xml> -n <name-for-clone> -f /path/to/clone/disk --preserve-data 
```

Snapshots
--
Snapshots let users to revert back to the previous state of the virtual machine. It saves the state of the VM at that exact moment. It is a combination of disk snapshot and VM memory state. It is a good practice to take snapshots of machines. `libvirt` supports taking live snapshots, meaning a snapshot can be taken when the guest is running. It is recommended to shutdown or suspend the guest first if there are any I/O intensive operations. 

There are mainly two classes of snapshots for libvirt guests: internal and external; each has its own benefits and limitations:

- **Internal snapshot:** Internal snapshots are contained completely within a qcow2 file. Before snapshot and after snapshot bits are stored in a single disk, allowing for greater flexibility. virt-manager provides a graphical management utility to manage internal snapshots. The following are the limitations of an internal snapshot:
	- Supported only with the qcow2 format
	- VM is paused while taking the snapshot
	- Doesn't work with LVM storage pools
- **External snapshot:** External snapshots are based on a copy-on-write concept. When a snapshot is taken, the original disk image becomes read-only and a new overlay disk image is created to accommodate guest writes:

![[Pasted image 20241125145309.png]]

The overlay disk image is initially created as zero bytes in length and it can grow to the size of the original disk. The overlay disk image is always qcow2. However, external snapshots work with any base disk image. You can take external snapshot of raw disk images, qcow2, or any other libvirt-supported disk image format. However, there is no GUI support available yet for external snapshots so they are more expensive to manage as compared to internal snapshots.


Converting a VM disk format:

```
// RAW to QCOW2
- qemu-img convert -f raw -o qcow2 <raw-image>.img <qcow2-image>.qcow2

// QCOW2 to RAW
- qemu-img convert -f qcow2 -o raw <qcow2-image>.qcow2 <raw-image>.img
```


#### Creating Internal snapshots

The time to complete snapshot creation depends on ow much memory the virtual machine has and how actively the guest is modifying that memory at the time. To create and list snapshots of VM:

```
- virsh snapshot-create-as <VM/Domain-name> --name "SS name" --decsription "desc for ss" --atomic
- virsh snapshot-list <VM/Domain-name>
```

Multiple snapshots can be created for a VM as time goes. we can use `--parent` while listing snapshots to see relation between snapshots and `--tree` option shows the relation in a tree fashion.  `qemu-img info` command can also be used on the disk file to see snapshots list and `qemu-img check` can be used to check integrity of a disk file.

```
- virsh snapshot-list <VM/Domain-name> --parent
- virsh snapshot-list <VM/Domain-name> --tree
- qemu-img info /path/to/disk/file
- qemu-img check /path/to/disk/file
```

To revert a VM back to its previous state or to delete a snapshot use the following command:
```
- virsh snapshot-revert <VM/Domain-name> --snapshotname "ss_name"
- virsh snapshot-delete <VM/Domain-name> <Snapshot-name>
```


#### Creating External snapshots

Unlike internal, external snapshot work on all disk formats (`raw`, `qcow`, `qcow2`, `vmdk`). It works by taking the snap shot of disk and adding an overlay disk which both readable and writable, the original disk becomes only readable. After taking the snapshot VM uses the overlay disk, so that if something happens the overlay disk can be discarded. 

```
- virsh snapshot-create-as <VM-name> <ss-name> "ss description" --atomic --disk-only

- virsh snashot-create-as <VM-name> <ss-name> "ss description" --atomic --disk-only --disk-spec vda,snapshot=external,file=/save/path 

-virsh snapshot-create-as <VM-name> <ss-name> "ss description" --quiesce --disk-only
```


**Quiesce** is a file system freeze (fsfreeze/fsthaw) mechanism. This puts the guest file systems into a consistent state. If this step is not taken, anything waiting to be written to disk will not be included in the snapshot. Also, any changes made during the snapshot process may corrupt the image. To work around this, the `qemu-guest-agent` needs to be installed on, and running inside, the guest.

Commit message:

sysprep for windows template creation

KVM/QEMU/7. Templates and Snapshots.md, after:

 A virtual machine template (more commonly referred to as simply a template) is a pre-configured operating system image that can used to quickly deploy virtual machines. Using templates, you can avoid many repetitive installation and configuration tasks. The result is a fully installed, ready to operate (virtual) server in less time than manual installation would take.

`virt-clone` and `virt-sysprep` and other operating systems sealing utilities can be used to create templates, although they are not intended for creating templates. We create and manage templates with the help of the `virsh` and `qemu-img` commands and deploy virtual machines from a template using the thin and clone methods:

- **Thin method:** A virtual machine deployed using the thin cloning mechanism uses the template image as a base image in read-only mode and links an additional "copy on write image" to store newly generated data. It requires less disk space but cannot run without access to the base template image.
- **Clone method:** A virtual machine deployed using the full cloning mechanism creates a complete copy of the virtual machine that is fully independent of the original VM or VM template. But it requires the same disk space as the original.

`virt-sysprep` prepares a Linux virtual machine to become a template or clone by removing system-specific information automatically so that clones can be made from it. `virt-sysprep` can also customize a virtual machine, for instance by adding SSH keys, users, or logos.

```
- virt-sysprep -d <vm-name>
- virt-sysprep -a /path/to/disk // can also be used whn guest is not defined
- virt-sysprep --list-operations // lists all operations it performs on VM
- virt-sysre --operations list,of,operations [-d, -a] [vm-name or disk]
```

==After using `virt-sysprep` on a VM, it is recommended to not never start a VM as it will lose all `sysprep` operations and might cause problems in VM's deployed using thin method.==

After completing the `sysprep` step, the XML file of the VM should be saved and the VM's should be shutoff. 

Creating Linux Templates
--
To create a Linux template, it needs to be installed first using ISO file. Once the installation is done create a default user with a password, change hostname or add ssh key files. Once you have done everything run `virt-sysprep` command on the installed Linux VM and save the VM's XML file. Now create a `backing` disk file for the clone and  apply virt-clone on the created disk file as follows.

```
- virt-sysprep -d <vm-name(temlate)>
- virsh dumpxml <vm-name(template)>
- qemu-img create -b /path/to/vm(template)/disk -F <original-vm-(backing)disk-format> -f <clone-disk-format> /path/to/new/disk
- virt-clone --original-xml <templates-xml> -n <name-for-clone> -f /path/to/clone/disk --preserve-data 
```

Creating Windows Template
--
Unlike Linux `virt-sysprep` doesn't support windows. The `sysprep` should be done form inside the VM.
1. Open `regedit` and navigate to `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/System/Setup` and create a string value named `UnattendFile`.
2. Now modify the string `UnattendFile` value to `a:\sysprep.inf` and save it.
3. Then, go to `c:\Windows\System32` and run the `sysprep.exe` file. 
4. Under System Cleanup Action, select Enter System Out-of-Box-Experience (OOBE) and tick the Generalize checkbox if you need to change the computer's system identification number (SID).
5.  Under Shutdown options, select Shutdown and click on the OK button. The virtual machine will now go through the sealing process and shut down automatically.

==**Note :** To remove the user account enable admin account and remove the user from admin account. The admin account will reset while clones are created and you will be prompted to create a new user.==

Now follow the commands:

``` 
- sysprep /generalize /oobe /shutdown /mode:vm //in guest os powershell as admin
- virsh dumpxml <vm-name(template)>
- virsh undefine <windows-vm>
- qemu-img create -b /path/to/vm(template)/disk -F <original-vm-(backing)disk-format> -f <clone-disk-format> /path/to/new/disk
- virt-clone --original-xml <templates-xml> -n <name-for-clone> -f /path/to/clone/disk --preserve-data 
```

Snapshots
--
Snapshots let users to revert back to the previous state of the virtual machine. It saves the state of the VM at that exact moment. It is a combination of disk snapshot and VM memory state. It is a good practice to take snapshots of machines. `libvirt` supports taking live snapshots, meaning a snapshot can be taken when the guest is running. It is recommended to shutdown or suspend the guest first if there are any I/O intensive operations. 

There are mainly two classes of snapshots for libvirt guests: internal and external; each has its own benefits and limitations:

- **Internal snapshot:** Internal snapshots are contained completely within a qcow2 file. Before snapshot and after snapshot bits are stored in a single disk, allowing for greater flexibility. virt-manager provides a graphical management utility to manage internal snapshots. The following are the limitations of an internal snapshot:
	- Supported only with the qcow2 format
	- VM is paused while taking the snapshot
	- Doesn't work with LVM storage pools
- **External snapshot:** External snapshots are based on a copy-on-write concept. When a snapshot is taken, the original disk image becomes read-only and a new overlay disk image is created to accommodate guest writes:

![[Pasted image 20241125145309.png]]

The overlay disk image is initially created as zero bytes in length and it can grow to the size of the original disk. The overlay disk image is always qcow2. However, external snapshots work with any base disk image. You can take external snapshot of raw disk images, qcow2, or any other libvirt-supported disk image format. However, there is no GUI support available yet for external snapshots so they are more expensive to manage as compared to internal snapshots.

**Converting a VM disk format:**

```
// RAW to QCOW2
- qemu-img convert -f raw -o qcow2 <raw-image>.img <qcow2-image>.qcow2

// QCOW2 to RAW
- qemu-img convert -f qcow2 -o raw <qcow2-image>.qcow2 <raw-image>.img
```


#### Creating Internal snapshots

The time to complete snapshot creation depends on ow much memory the virtual machine has and how actively the guest is modifying that memory at the time. To create and list snapshots of VM:

```
- virsh snapshot-create-as <VM/Domain-name> --name "SS name" --decsription "desc for ss" --atomic
- virsh snapshot-list <VM/Domain-name>
```

Multiple snapshots can be created for a VM as time goes. we can use `--parent` while listing snapshots to see relation between snapshots and `--tree` option shows the relation in a tree fashion.  `qemu-img info` command can also be used on the disk file to see snapshots list and `qemu-img check` can be used to check integrity of a disk file.

```
- virsh snapshot-list <VM/Domain-name> --parent
- virsh snapshot-list <VM/Domain-name> --tree
- qemu-img info /path/to/disk/file
- qemu-img check /path/to/disk/file
```

To revert a VM back to its previous state or to delete a snapshot use the following command:
```
- virsh snapshot-revert <VM/Domain-name> --snapshotname "ss_name"
- virsh snapshot-delete <VM/Domain-name> <Snapshot-name>
```


#### Creating External snapshots

![[Pasted image 20241128113217.png]]

Unlike internal, external snapshot work on all disk formats (`raw`, `qcow`, `qcow2`, `vmdk`). It works by taking the snap shot of disk and adding an overlay disk which both readable and writable, the original disk becomes only readable. After taking the snapshot VM uses the overlay disk, so that if something happens the overlay disk can be discarded. 

```
- virsh snapshot-create-as <VM-name> <ss-name> "ss description" --atomic --disk-only

- virsh snashot-create-as <VM-name> <ss-name> "ss description" --atomic --disk-only --disk-spec vda,snapshot=external,file=/save/path 

-virsh snapshot-create-as <VM-name> <ss-name> "ss description" --quiesce --disk-only
```


==**Quiesce** is a file system freeze (fsfreeze/fsthaw) mechanism. This puts the guest file systems into a consistent state. If this step is not taken, anything waiting to be written to disk will not be included in the snapshot. Also, any changes made during the snapshot process may corrupt the image. To work around this, the `qemu-guest-agent` needs to be installed on, and running inside, the guest.==

To be continued...
