 A virtual machine template (more commonly referred to as simply a template) is a pre-configured operating system image that can used to quickly deploy virtual machines. Using templates, you can avoid many repetitive installation and configuration tasks. The result is a fully installed, ready to operate (virtual) server in less time than manual installation would take.

`virt-clone` and `virt-sysprep` and other operating systems sealing utilities can be used to create templates, although they are not intended for creating templates. We create and manage templates with the help of the `virsh` and `qemu-img` commands and deploy virtual machines from a template using the thin and clone methods:

- **Thin method:** A virtual machine deployed using the thin cloning mechanism uses the template image as a base image in read-only mode and links an additional "copy on write image" to store newly generated data. It requires less disk space but cannot run without access to the base template image.
- **Clone method:** A virtual machine deployed using the full cloning mechanism creates a complete copy of the virtual machine that is fully independent of the original VM or VM template. But it requires the same disk space as the original.

`virt-sysprep` prepares a Linux virtual machine to become a template or clone by removing system-specific information automatically so that clones can be made from it. `virt-sysprep` can also customize a virtual machine, for instance by adding SSH keys, users, or logos.

```
- virt-sysprep -d <vm-name>
- virt-sysprep -a /path/to/disk // can also be used whn guest is not defined
- virt-sysprep --list-operations // lists all operations it performs on VM
- virt-sysre --operations list,of,operations [-d, -a] [vm-name or disk]
```

==After using `virt-sysprep` on a VM, it is recommended to not never start a VM as it will lose all `sysprep` operations and might cause problems in VM's deployed using thin method.==

After completing the `sysprep` step, the XML file of the VM should be saved and the VM's should be shutoff. 

Creating Linux Templates
--
To create a Linux template, it needs to be installed first using ISO file. Once the installation is done create a default user with a password, change hostname or add ssh key files. Once you have done everything run `virt-sysprep` command on the installed Linux VM and save the VM's XML file. Now create a `backing` disk file for the clone and  apply virt-clone on the created disk file as follows.

```
- virt-sysprep -d <vm-name(temlate)>
- virsh dumpxml <vm-name(template)>
- qemu-img create -b /path/to/vm(template)/disk -F <original-vm-(backing)disk-format> -f <clone-disk-format> /path/to/new/disk
- virt-clone --original-xml <templates-xml> -n <name-for-clone> -f /path/to/clone/disk --preserve-data 
```

Creating Windows Template
--
Unlike Linux `virt-sysprep` doesn't support windows. The `sysprep` should be done form inside the VM.
1. Open `regedit` and navigate to `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/System/Setup` and create a string value named `UnattendFile`.
2. Now modify the string `UnattendFile` value to `a:\sysprep.inf` and save it.
3. Then, go to `c:\Windows\System32` and run the `sysprep.exe` file. 
4. Under System Cleanup Action, select Enter System Out-of-Box-Experience (OOBE) and tick the Generalize checkbox if you need to change the computer's system identification number (SID).
5.  Under Shutdown options, select Shutdown and click on the OK button. The virtual machine will now go through the sealing process and shut down automatically.

Now follow the commands:

```
- virsh dumpxml <vm-name(template)>
- virsh undefine <windows-vm>
- qemu-img create -b /path/to/vm(template)/disk -F <original-vm-(backing)disk-format> -f <clone-disk-format> /path/to/new/disk
- virt-clone --original-xml <templates-xml> -n <name-for-clone> -f /path/to/clone/disk --preserve-data 
```

Snapshots
--

