IEEE Standards
--
###### Copper Ethernet Standards

|  Speed   |   Common Name    | IEEE Standard | Informal Name | Maximum Length |
| :------: | :--------------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :------------: |
| 10 Mbps  |     Ethernet     |    802.3i     |   10 BASE-T   |     100 m      |
| 100 Mbps |  Fast Ethernet   |    802.3u     |  100 BASE-T   |     100 m      |
|  1 Gbps  | Gigabit Ethernet |    802.3ab    |  1000 BASE-T  |     100 m      |
| 10 Gbps  | 10 Gig Ethernet  |    802.3an    |  10 GBASE-T   |     100 m      |

##### Fiber Cable Standards

| Informal Name | IEEE Standard |  Speed  |        Cable Type         | Maximum Length |
| :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----: | :-----------------------: | :------------: |
| 1000 BASE-LX  |    802.3z     | 1 Gbps  | Multi-Mode or Single-Mode |  550m or 5km   |
|  10G BASE-SR  |    802.3ae    | 10 Gbps |        Multi-Mode         |      400m      |
|  10G BASE-LR  |    802.3ae    | 10 Gbps |        Single-Mode        |      10km      |
|  10G BASE-ER  |    802.3ae    | 10 Gbps |        Single-Mode        |      30km      |

Basics
--
- `enable` to enter privileged exec mode (`#`) from user  exec mode (`>`).
	- Provides access to view device's configuration, restart the device et.
	- Cannot change the config., but can change the date on the device, save the config file, etc.
- Use  `?` to view all available commands.
- Partial command can be followed by `?` to see all available commands  by the prefix.
	- example `e?`
- `configure terminal` can be used to enter Global Configuration Mode from Privileged exec mode.
- `enable password <password>` can be used to set password for GCM from GCM. This password is asked every time user tries to enter GCM. It used Cisco propriety (7) encryption.
- `enable secret <password>` can also be used to set password for GCM from GCM. This password is asked every time user tries to enter GCM. But it much secure than `enable password` as ==it uses MD5 (5) encryption automatically==.
	- To encrypt password use `service password-encryption` command from GCM. This encrypts the password in configuration file.
- There are 2 types of configuration file's. `startu-config` and `running-config`. `running-config` has the changes we made before saving, to make them persistent we need to save the  config in `sartup-config`, which can be don in 3 different ways. These commands should be executed form privileged exec mode.
	- `write`
	- `write memory`
	- `copy running-config startup-config`
- To execute privileged exec mode commands from GM use `do` as a prefix for the command.
- Commands can be undone by adding `no` as prefix to the command.
	- ex `no service password-encryption`
- `show running-config interface <interface>`, shows only particular interface running configuration. ==Doesn't work in packet tracer.==


Ethernet LAN Switching
--
  - `show arp`, to see the ARP table.
  - `show mac address-table`, to see the mac address table, previous command on old devices is `show mac-address-table`.
  - `clear mac address-table dynamic`
	  - `clear mac address-table address <mac address>` (doesn't work on packet tracer)
	  - `clear mac address-table address interface <interface>` (doesn't work on packet tracer)
- `show ip interface brief` to see status of interfaces.
- `interface gig0/0` to select an interface and `interface range gig0/0-9, 10, gig0/11-14` to select a rang of interfaces
- `decription ## DESCRIPTION ##`, command can be used to set description on an interface.
- `ip address <ip> <mask.mask.mask.mask>`, o set IP on an interface.
- `no shutdown` command enables administratively disabled interfaces, which is default state on router interfaces.
- `show interfaces <interface>` to see layer 1, 2 and partial layer 3 status of an interface.
- `show interfaces description` can be used to read description set on an interface.
- `show interfaces status`, to see interface status such as speed, duplex and type..
- `speed` and `duplex` commands can be used to set them manually.

Static Routing
--
- `ip route <destination-address> <net-mask> <next-hop>`
	- `ip route <destination-address> <net-mask> <exit-interface>`
	- `ip route <destination-address> <net-mask> <exit-interface> <next-hop>`

VLANS
--
- `show vlan brief`
- `show interfaces trunk`
- Creating VLAN's on a switch.
	- `interface range <range>`
	- `switchport mode acces`
	- `switchport acces vlan <number>`, if VLAN doesn't exist, it is created.
- Creating trunk ports.
	- `switchport trunk encapsulation dot1q`, by default encapsulation is set to `auto`. `auto` mode is not allowed by the switch, `dot1q` or `isl` should be used, though `isl` is no longer supported. 
	- `switchport mode trunk`
	- `switchport trunk allowed vlan num, num...`, allows only mentioned VLAN's on the trunk port.
	- `switchport trunk native vlan num`, mentioned VLAN traffic will be untagged, but the native VLAN should match on the other switch.
- ROAS VLAN configuration.
	- `interface g0/1.10`
	- `encapsulation dot1q <vlan-id>`
	- `encapsulation dot1q <vlan-id> native ` 

DTP and VTP
--

| Administrative Mode |   Trunk    | Dynamic Desirable |   Access   | Dynamic Auto |
| :-----------------: | :--------: | :---------------: | :--------: | :----------: |
|        Trunk        |   Trunk    |       Trunk       | Miss Match |    Trunk     |
|  Dynamic Desirable  |   Trunk    |       Trunk       |   Access   |    Trunk     |
|       Access        | Miss Match |      Access       |   Access   |    Access    |
|    Dynamic Auto     |   Trunk    |       Trunk       |   Access   |    Access    |

STP
--
- `show spanning-tree [valn <vlan-id>]`
- `show spanning-tree interface <interface> detail`
- `spanning-tree vlan <valn-id> root primary`
- `spanning-tree vlan <valn-id> root secondary`
- `spanning-tree valn <valn-id> cost <cost>`
- `spanning-tree portfast [edge]`, on interface. `spanning-tree portfast [edge] trunk`
	- `sanning-tree portfast [edge] default`, from global configuration. Portfast is enabled on all access ports.
	- `spanning-tree portfast disable`, on interface.
- `spanning-tree bpdugaurd enable`, on interface
	- `spanning-tree portfast [edge] bpdugaurd enable`, from global configuration. Activates on all portfast enabled interfaces.
	- `spanning-tree bpduguard disable`
- `spanning-tree bpdufilter enable`, on interface. Port will ignore any BPDU's it receives.
	- `spanning-tree portfast [edge] bpdufilter default`, from global configuration. Activates BPDU filter on all portfast enabled interfaces.
	- `spanning-tree bpdu filter disable`.
- `spanning-tree guard root`, only on interfaces.
- `spanning-tree guard loop`
	- `spanning-tree loopguard default`, from global configuration. This enables on all ports.
	- `spanning-tree guard none`, to disable it on a specific port.


EtherChannel 
--
- `show etherchannel load-balance`, to view  the load balance method. Total of 6 types
	- Source MAC
	- Destination MAC
	- Source and Destination MAC
	- Source IP
	- Destination IP
	- Source and Destination IP
- `port-channel load-balance <method>`. To change the load-balance method.
- EtherChannel methods.
	- PAgP (Port Aggregation Protocol). Cisco Proprietary and dynamically negotiates for EtherChannel. (`auto/desirable)
	- LACP (Link Aggregation Control Protocol). Industry Standard and dynamically negotiates for EtherChannel.(`active/passive`)
	- Static EtherChannel. A protocol isn't used to determine if an EtherChannel should be formed. Interface are statically configured to form an EtherChannel.(`on`)
- ==Up to 8 interfaces can be formed into a single EtherChannel (LACP allows up to 16, but only 8 will be active, the other 8 will be on standby mode, waiting for an active interface to fail)==.
- `show etherchannel summary`
- `show etherchannel port-channel`, gives more detailed information. 
- Creating EtherChannel.
	- `interface range <range>`
	- `channel-group <num> mode [active/passive/auto/desirable/on]`. The channel group number should also math on other switch to form a link.
	- ==Interface speed and switchport mode should also match to form an active link.==


| Switch A/Switch B | Off | Auto | Desirable | Passive | Active | On  |
| :---------------: | :-: | :--: | :-------: | :-----: | :----: | :-: |
|        Off        | NO  |  NO  |    NO     |   NO    |   NO   | NO  |
|       Auto        | NO  |  NO  |   PAgP    |   NO    |   NO   | NO  |
|     Desirable     | NO  | PAgp |   PAgP    |   NO    |   NO   | NO  |
|      Passive      | NO  |  NO  |    NO     |   NO    |  LACP  | NO  |
|      Active       | NO  |  NO  |    NO     |  LACP   |  LACP  | NO  |
|        On         | NO  |  NO  |    NO     |   NO    |   NO   | ON  |

Dynamic Routing
--

- `show ip route <eigrp/ospf/rip/static/connected>`
- `show ip protocols`, shows routing protocol information.
#### Administrative Distances

|     Route Protocol      |   AD    |
| :---------------------: | :-----: |
| **Directly Connected**  |  **0**  |
|       **Static**        |  **1**  |
| **External BGP (EBGP)** | **20**  |
|        **EIGRP**        | **90**  |
|        **IGRP**         | **100** |
|        **OSPF**         | **110** |
|        **IS-IS**        | **115** |
|         **RIP**         | **120** |
|  **EIGRP (external)**   | **170** |
| **Internal BGP (iBGP)** | **200** |
|   **Unusable Route**    | **255** |

##### Multi-Cast Addresses

| Routing Protocol |           Multi-Cast Addres            |
| :--------------: | :------------------------------------: |
|      RIP V2      |               224.0.0.9                |
|     EIGRP 88     |               24.0.0.10                |
|     OSPF 89      | 224.0.0.5, 224.0.0.6 (DR/BDR Messages) |

##### RIP 

- Metric is hop count with a limit of 15.
- V1 is classful and V2 supports VLSM and CIDR.
- Supports ECMP (Equal Cost Multi Path) Load Balancing.

```
- routig rip
- version 2
- no auto-summary
- network 10.0.0.0
- network 192.168.1.0 
- defaut-information originate 
- passive interface <interface> 
- maximumt-path <1-32> //Max paths for load balancing
- distance <num> //Manual AD setting
```


##### EIGRP

- Metric is calculated using bandwidth of slowest links in the route and and the delay of all the links in the route.
- Does not have hop count limit.
- Supports Un Equal Cost Multi Path Load balancing.


- ==**Feasible** Distance is the best metric along a path.
- ==**Successor** is the best path to a destination network.
- ==**Feasible Successor** is a backup path that is guaranteed to be loop free.
- ==**Advertised Distance** is the metric that next-hop router has calculated.==


```
- router eigrp <autonomus number> // routers in same AS number share information
- no auto-summary
- network 10.0.13.0 0.0.0.255 //Inverted mask is used
- variance <num> // used for unECMP 
- defaut-information originate 
- passive interface <interface> 
- maximumt-path <1-32> //Max paths for load balancing
- distance <num> //Manual AD setting
```

- `do show ip eigrp topology`, gives more information like showing routes not present in general `show ip route` command.

##### OSPF

- `show ip ospf neighbor`
- `show ip ospf interface [brief]`
- `ip ospf <process-id> area <area>`, from interface configure mode to activate OSPF on a particular interface.
 
- Only supports ECMP.
- 