- Postfix is an MTA that uses SMTP(Port: 25).
- MTA takes the mail you want to send and guides it to its destination.
- While receiving an email, we use mail clients such as IMAP or POP3.
-  To make installation easier use `DEBIAN_PRIORITY=low apt install -y postfix`.
- `$mydomain` variable in the `main.cf` defines the domain for email. `mydestination` is the list of domains postfix sends and receives emails from.

Securing Postfix
--
- We can secure the SMTP traffic with the use of SSL/TLS certificates. To secure the traffic to variables in the `main.cf` file should be updated, they are : `smtpd_tls_cert_file` and `smtpd_tls_key_file`.
- The `smtpd_tls_auth_only = yes` option in Postfix configures the mail server to require that the client establishes a secure (TLS/SSL) connection before allowing authentication. This setting is important for securing the authentication process and protecting user credentials.
- To get additional information about Postfix client TLS activity, increase the log level `smtp_tls_loglevel` from `0` to `1` by changing the following line in the `/etc/postfix/main.cf`.

#### Configuring Postfix as destination for multiple domains

`<info@example.com>  <user22@example.net>
`<sales@example.com>  <user11@example.org>`

- Above mappings are made in `/etc/postfix/virtual`.  Postfix redirects all emails sent to `info@example.com` to `user22@example.net` and email sent to `sales@example.com` to `user11@example.org`. Then the hash file should be created using `postconf /etc/postconf/virtual` command.
- After creating the hash file, it should be added in the conf file `virtual_alias_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/virtual`.