Apache
--
- `apachectl configtest` command can be used to test the configuration without restarting or reloading the server.
- `VirtualHosts` can be used to host multiple websites on a single server using different network cards.
- By default ubuntu stores configuration for each virtual host in `/etc/apache2/sites-available` directory and when the site is enables using `a2ensite` a symbolic link is created in `sites-enabled` directory. Similarly `a2dissite` can be used to disable a site.
- In REHL servers the configuration files are stored in `/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf` and `/etc/httpd/conf.d/`.
- To enable `.htaccess` file `AllowOveride` option should be set to `All`. By default it is set to `None`, which means it is disabled. It has many uses such as redirecting, custom error pages, password protection using `.htpasswd` file, URL rewriting and others. A sample `.htaccess` file is provided below.
- Since `.htaccess` is different for every directory, `AllowOverride` should be enclosed in `Directory` Tag.

`<Directory "/path/to/directory">`
`AllowOverride All`
`</Directory>`

### Redirects (*.htaccess sample*) 

```
RewriteEngine On
RedirectMatch 301 ^/shop/ /products/
RewriteRule ^oldpage.html$ newpage.html [R=301,NC,L]
Redirect 301/301 /old/page /new/page

ErrorDocument 404 /page/location
ErrorDocument 500 /page/location

Order deny,allow
Deny from all
Allow from 192.168.1.100
```


### Virtual Host configuration 


```
<VirtualHost *:80>
    DocumentRoot "/var/www/example.com/"
    ServerName example.com
    CustomLog /var/log/httpd/example.com_access.log combined
    ErrorLog /var/log/httpd/example.com_error.log
</VirtualHost>
```

- Virtual hosts should be enabled once configured.
- VH's allow to host multiple websites on a single machine, by specifying different `ServerName`'s.
- Each VH can have different `.htaccess` file.

### SSL/TLS

- To generate certificate use the following command : ` openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048 -out lab.itpro.tv.key`
- Generating CSR :  `openssl req -new -key lab.itpro.tv.key -out lab.itpro.tv.csr`
- Signing the request :  `openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in lab.itpro.tv.csr -signkey lab.itpro.tv.key -out lab.itpro.tv.crt`
- In the configuration file for the virtual host add  the following section:

```
<VirtualHost *:443>
	DocumentRoot /path/to/web/files
	ServerName server.name
	ServerAlias www.server.name
	
	SSLEngine on
	SSLCertificateFile /path/to/file.crt 
	SSLCertificateKeyFile /path/to/file.key
</VirtualHost>
```


Nginx
--
- Though Nginx can work as a web server, it is widely used as proxy, caching server or a load balancer.
- `/usr/share/nginx/html` is the default location for Nginx, but in Ubuntu it uses `/var/www/html`.
- 