NFS
--
- NFS requires `rpcbind`.  NFS 4 does not use `rpcbind`. `rpcbind` provides support to bind the server with a socket.
- NFS version 2 and 3 servers are _stateless_, meaning that the server does not retain any transaction information about its clients. A single NFS transaction corresponds to a single, complete file operation. NFS requires that the client remember any information needed for later NFS use.
- To share files, we need to first create an export folder with appropriate permissions.
- Configuration file location : `/etc/exports`
- `exportfs` is the command used to configure NFS.
	- `exportfs -r` --> reloads the configuration
	- `exportfs -v` --> shows the exports
- NFS 4 uses GSS API.
- Package is named `nfs-kernel-server` on ubuntu and `nfs-utils` on RHEL.
- For a simplified ID management in an NFS environment, administrators often rely on centralized services, such as LDAP or Network Information Service (NIS) to manage UID and GID mappings across multiple systems.
- In the `/etc/exports` file, the `sec` option defines one or multiple methods of Kerberos security that the share should provide, and clients can mount the share with one of these methods. The `sec` option supports the following values:
	- `sys`: no cryptographic protection (default)
	- `krb5`: authentication only
	- `krb5i`: authentication and integrity protection
	- `krb5p`: authentication, integrity checking, and traffic encryption
- NFS treats the `root` user on the client as equivalent to the `root` user on the serv
- er. However, by default, the NFS server maps `root` to the `nobody` account when accessing an NFS share. The `root_squash` option controls this behavior.

### The `/etc/exports` Configuration file

```
<directory> <host_or_network_1>(<options_1>) <host_or_network_n>(<options_n>)...
```

#### Options List

```
- rw/ro
- sync/async
- all_squash/no_all_squash
- root_squash/no_root_squash
- subtree_check/no_sub_tree_check
- secure/insecure //Restricts the NFS server to only accept requests from ports below 1024, which are reserved for system use.

- anonuid/anongid
- wdelay/no_wdelay //NFS server delays writing to disk if it suspects another write request is coming soon.

- sec=flavors: Specifies the security flavors to be used (e.g., `sys`, `krb5`, `krb5i`, `krb5p`).
```

To enable particular versions of NFS, the `/etc/nfs.conf` should be edited.

```
[nfsd]
# vers3=y
# vers4=y
vers4.0=n
vers4.1=n
vers4.2=y
```



Samba
--

